# Sales_Data_Capstone
A project to analyze 10 years' worth of Etsy sales for Gwydion's Forest

Scenario: An online craft seller has experienced an upswing in sales in the last few years. The owner would like to analyze the shop's sale history to identify trends such as:
-the busiest times of year
-the performance of different shop sections and most frequently bought items
-overall sales performance in both number of orders and dollar amount
-top 5 foreign countries that buy for possible advertising focus
-shipping costs as percentage of profit

Cleaning process:
Initial data generated by Etsy, downloaded in .CSV format by year. Additional transaction details were saved by the shop owner (me) as individual receipts in MSWord format. 
Identifiable personal data (legal names and street addresses) has been removed to protect customer privacy.

  Download CSV from Etsy by year
    Problem: Skus only started being used in august 2022. 
      Use saved receipt documents (wordfiles in format “CustName ProductDesc D-a-t-e.docx”) to add product description to each line item. 
        Copy file name as path from Windows Explorer. Paste into Excel, use formulae to isolate name, date, and product (Left/Right/TextBefore, Find, etc) 
        Use VLOOKUP to match last name to receipt line, add product desc to sku
    Problem: Item descriptions vary widely (CRLNset/CoralineSet/Coraline/Stone&Key, etc) 
      use find and replace to reduce variation
    Problem: Some years, only product and date filenames were used. 
        Vlookup those by date
    Problem: Some years, dates differ between date ordered and date on receipt.
        Try to link those by sequence and price.
    Combine cleaned excel sheets into one global document, and clean further
      Remove sensitive data (legal names, street addresses, payment info)
      Standardize formatting for dates, zip codes, $, etc
      Create preliminary charts/graphs to identify focus and begin narrative (Busiest time of year, day of week, % of sales that are more than 1 item, most frequent repeat buyers)
    Standardize skus, work back from current list for creation of interworking database
      Make separate list of sku, item desc, shop section, price, cost to make
      Any old/unmatched items change to “custom” for linking to at least a shop section
    Load global list into sql / r for further cleaning. (sku & dept)
      Create new tables for focus on items/shop sections (join)
      Identify 1st sale date for each sku to add to item profile

Deliverable Analysis:
  Create a visualization to answer each question specifically, and relate findings
  Construct a dashboard in Tableau for easy reference
  make data updatable, create process for adding new records each month

